Added WebSocket example for Deno (#29048)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/websockets_api/writing_a_websocket_server_in_deno/index.md

---
title: Writing a WebSocket server in JavaScript (Deno)
slug: Web/API/WebSockets_API/Writing_a_WebSocket_server_in_Deno
---

## Introduction

> This example shows you how to create a WebSocket API server using Deno, with a complimentary web page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows you how to create a WebSocket API server using Deno, with an accompanying web page.
```

Also, probably add a paragraph explaining what Deno is? It's not as well-known as Node and most of the server-side tutorials use Node (in fact I'm surprised we have a Deno tutorial before Node). We would need at least one link to the installation guide.

---
title: Writing a WebSocket server in JavaScript (Deno)
slug: Web/API/WebSockets_API/Writing_a_WebSocket_server_in_Deno
---

## Introduction

This example shows you how to create a WebSocket API server using Deno, with a

> complimentary web page.

Reviewer: You don't need to (and we generally advise against) wrap lines by column width, because they make the diff much harder to read with future edits. You can either soft break at each sentence, or only use paragraph breaks.

Author: Noted, thankfully I didn't have too many lines to change

Deno version at the time of writing: `1.36.4`.

## Code

> The code will consist in two files, one for the server, and one for the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code will be contained in two files, one for the server, and one for the client.
```

### Server

> Create a `main.ts`` file. This file will contain the code for a simple HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `main.ts` file. This file will contain the code for a simple HTTP
```

Also, I recommend using .js since you aren't using TS syntax and we don't teach TS on MDN so this may be less accessible.

---
title: Writing a WebSocket server in JavaScript (Deno)
slug: Web/API/WebSockets_API/Writing_a_WebSocket_server_in_Deno
tags:
  - HTML5
  - Handshaking
  - Tutorial
  - WebSockets

>   - Deno

Author: Should I not provide tags?

>   - Deno

Reviewer: No, we don't use tags anymore.

---
title: Writing a WebSocket server in JavaScript (Deno)
slug: Web/API/WebSockets_API/Writing_a_WebSocket_server_in_Deno
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Websockets API")}}

## Introduction

This example shows you how to create a WebSocket API server using Deno, with an accompanying web page.

> Deno is a JavaScript runtime which supports TypeScript compiling and caching on the fly. Deno has built-in formatter, linter, test runner and more, and also follows the WebAPI standards. By being compliant with the WebAPIs, the only non-spec JS is the ones found in the global `Deno` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deno is a JavaScript runtime which supports TypeScript compiling and caching on the fly. Deno has built-in formatter, linter, test runner and more, and also implements many web APIs. By being compliant with the web standards, all Deno-specific APIs are implemented under the `Deno` namespace.
```

> To install Deno, go to the [website](https://deno.com/) and follow the steps there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Deno website](https://deno.com/) provides instructions for installing Deno.
```

> Deno version at the time of writing: `1.36.4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deno version at the time of writing: `1.36`.
```

### Server

Create a `main.js` file. This file will contain the code for a simple HTTP server which will also serve the client HTML.

```js
Deno.serve({
  port: 80,
  handler: async (request) => {
    // If the request is a websocket upgrade,
    // we need to use the Deno.upgradeWebSocket helper
    if (request.headers.get("upgrade") === "websocket") {
      const { socket, response } = Deno.upgradeWebSocket(request);

      socket.onopen = () => {
        console.log("CONNECTED");
      };
      socket.onmessage = (event) => {
        console.log(`RECEIVED: ${event.data}`);
        socket.send("pong");
      };
      socket.onclose = () => console.log("DISCONNECTED");
      socket.onerror = (error) => console.error("ERROR:", error);

      return response;
    } else {
      // If the request is a normal HTTP request,
      // we serve the client HTML file.
      const file = await Deno.open("./index.html", { read: true });
      return new Response(file.readable);
    }
  },
});
```

`Deno.upgradeWebSocket()` upgrades the connection to a WebSocket connection, which is explained further in [Protocol upgrade mechanism](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Protocol_upgrade_mechanism).

> `Deno.serve()` uses `Deno.listen()` and `Deno.serveHttp()` under the hood, and is a higher-level interface to easily set up a HTTP server (see the [API documentation](https://deno.land/api@v1.36.4?s=Deno.serve)). Without it, the code would look something like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`Deno.serve()`](https://deno.land/api@v1.36.4?s=Deno.serve) uses `Deno.listen()` and `Deno.serveHttp()` under the hood, and is a higher-level interface to easily set up a HTTP server. Without it, the code would look something like this.
```

<p>Sends a ping every five seconds</p>
<div id="output"></div>
<script>
  const wsUri = "ws://127.0.0.1/";
  const output = document.querySelector("#output");
  const websocket = new WebSocket(wsUri);
  let pingInterval;

  function writeToScreen(message) {
    output.insertAdjacentHTML("afterbegin", "<p>" + message + "</p>");
  }

  function sendMessage(message) {
    writeToScreen("SENT: " + message);
    websocket.send(message);
  }

  websocket.onopen = (e) => {
    writeToScreen("CONNECTED");
    sendMessage("ping");
    pingInterval = setInterval(() => {
      sendMessage("ping");
    }, 5000);
  };

  websocket.onclose = (e) => {
    writeToScreen("DISCONNECTED");
    clearInterval(pingInterval);
  };

  websocket.onmessage = (e) => {
    writeToScreen("RECEIVED: " + e.data);
  };

  websocket.onerror = (e) => {
    writeToScreen("ERROR: " + e.data);
  };
</script>
```

## Running the code

With the two files, run the app using Deno.

```sh
deno run --allow-net=0.0.0.0:80 --allow-read=./index.html main.js
```

Deno requires us to give explicit permissions for what we can access on the host machine.

- `--allow-net=0.0.0.0:80` allows the app to attach to localhost on port 80

> - `--allow-read=./index.html` allows access to the html file for the client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--allow-read=./index.html` allows access to the HTML file for the client
```

> ## Related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## See also
```

(The other pages don't use "See also" but let's be more compliant with guidelines here)
